Hashtags (those ubiquitous words and phrases that start with the # symbol) are used in social media such as Twitter and Instagram to label and sort tweets, photos and more. Hashtags are social media’s way of organizing photos, ideas, concepts, etc. Think of them as massive file folders, cross referenced with other file folders if more than one hashtag is used.
In education, Twitter and social media in general and hashtags in particular can be a valuable tool for educators, administrators, parents and students to connect with each other and share ideas and discoveries. Here’s how students can get the most out of social media in the classroom by using hashtags.
1. Send and receive general announcements to and from classmates
For effective communication among students regarding general classroom matters, it’s important for users to agree on a classroom-shared hashtag that can be used by all students. Tweets and other social media postings that pertain to the classroom should be accompanied by a hashtag that will be used for all tweets, Instagram posts, etc.
They can be accompanied by other hashtags as well, to further narrow down the subject, but a tag such as #UNREnglish101Hall for an English 101 class taught by Dr. Hall at the University of Nevada-Reno, for example, will enable anyone who clicks on it to see all posts tagged with it. This facilitates connection and discussion between students even when they are not in the classroom. Students can do a hashtag search to make sure their hashtag isn’t already being used by another group.
2. Have a class discussion on a general or specific subject
If students are discussing or sharing information on a specific subject, such as a specific text or lesson from class, the discussion could have the classroom hashtag, along with hashtags that describe the topic. For example, if the class is studying the works of Shakespeare and are currently reading “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” discussions could be hashtagged with #Shakespeare and #AMidsummerNightsDream.
